---
title: "Experiences"
permalink: /experiences/
---
- [Projects](#projects)
- [Professional Experiences](#professional-experiences)
- [Volunteering](#volunteering)

## Projects

**Freelance Writer** - *Scale AI*

03/2024 - present 

**Context:** Writing and assessing Generative AI tasks (chatbot, API calls, etc.), training AI to generate natural language responses. 

- **Prompt Writing:** Developed over 300 detailed prompts with various topics for the chatbot program, aimed at making AI conversations more sophisticated and human-like. 
- **Quality Assessment:** Evaluated 500+ AI generated responses monthly, rewrite the disqualified ones to adhere to the preset standards.
- **Report Writing:** Reviewed and reported the API calls generated by an AI assistant to retrieve information from Google Workspace, translated the technical issues into simplified English, resulting in a 95% accuracy in content relevance. 

**Data Analyst** - *University of Eastern Finland*      

02/2024 - 03/2024

**Context:** This was a solo academic project, I applied R and Python for a corpus-based linguistic research. 

- **Documentation:** Independently carried out a corpus-based comparative analysis, used VSCode and RStudio to document the research workflow, methodologies, source code, and findings in R and Markdown, before archiving the result in HTML. 
- **Data Analysis:** Collected, cleaned and analyzed a corpus containing 1.6 million words. Utilized Python NLTK and online tagging tools for POS and semantic tagging. Completed multiple linguistic analysis with R. 
- **Project Report:** Presented the report result using a data-driven, story-telling strategy with Canva, scored high in the final review. 
  
## Professional Experiences

**Associate, American Client Solutions** - *Gerson Lehrman Group*      

03/2022 - 10/2022

**Context:** GLG is an expert network company, my role was to recruit APAC experts for American clients' consultations, responsible for the pre- and post-sales communication. 

- **Project Documentation:** Structured and updated screening questions, experts' onboarding tutorials, and post-interview FAQs. Streamlined the recruiting process to successfully navigate at least 5 recruiting projects per day. 
- **Expert Recruiting:** Sourced and reached out to 20 industry experts in the Greater China area per project via cold calls, recruiting platforms, and referrals. Achieved a 70% acceptance rate for recruited experts.
- **Client Support:** Solved 10+ inquiries per day, as the primary liaison among candidates, compliance team and clients, to support clients' fast-changing research angles. 

**Digitalization Project Assistant** - *Huazhu Hotels Group*        

07/2021 - 01/2022

**Context:** Huazhu acquired Deutsche Hospitality, resulting in a series of system integration. I was the assistant to the Digitalization Director, aiding in the rollout of 3 cross-functional projects.  

- **Project Support:** Monitored schedules of 3 projects (loyalty system, call center, and sales), familiar with MS Project and JIRA. Maintained project documents (loyalty plans, cost monitoring reports, T&Cs). Coordinated with law team to ensure the updated T&Cs conform to GDPR requirements. 
- **Translation and Documentation:** Translated (zh-EN) and maintained software introductions, tutorials, release notes, PRDs, FAQs, and progress reports for the CRM product team. 
- **Technical Communication:** As the first contact between China IT team and Germany Marketing team, coordinated marketing materials and technical communications for the company's Loyalty System Launching Event. 
- **Meeting Coordination:** Coordinated 60+ meetings between the company's China and Germany teams, and completed every bilingual meeting minutes within a 2-hour timeframe.

**Localization Project Management** - *WorldSkills International*        

07/2020 - 01/2021

**Context:** Leading the material localization of the Planning and Financial Department for the 46th WorldSkills Competition.  

- **Project Management:** Acted as the primary liaison between the Competition Committee and the translation team, tracked project milestones and documentation for streamlined reporting, and consistently delivered tasks within a 48-hour timeframe.
- **Translators Recruiting:** Led the selection and onboarding of 8 new translators from nearly 100 candidates through translation assessment. Provided regular quality training for new recruits.
- **Quality Assurance:** Initiated a rigorous self- and group-proofreading workflow to maintain exceptional translation quality standards, resulting in my translation team ranking 1st in the final review.

**Instructional Content Creator** - *Shanghai Global Communicator*        

10/2019 - 06/2020

**Context:** Contributing to 3 sections of the company's services: translation service, training courses, social media management. 

- **Content Writing:** Created over 40,000 words of bilingual content for the company’s education channel, covering topics including translation studies, linguistic quality assurance, and localization strategies.
- **Community Operations:** Managed a translation-learning community of 300 members, adopted a reciprocal study system, driving a 25% engagement increase.
- **Curriculum Development:** Designed and prepared multi-media course materials for 20+ localization class, accumulated 500+ attendance in total.

## Volunteering

**Translator** - *Project Gutenberg*        

06/2020 - 01/2021

**Context:** This was a translation project of literary works, I was one of the translators as well as the team lead. I devised the translator's manual and style guide for the translation process. 

- Used Trados to translate an English novel of 110,000 words into Chinese with two other translators within 3 months.
- Assured translation quality by constructing the Translators Manual and Style Guide, spearheading a proofreading workflow, and communicating with translators after each review session.
- Structured, wrote, and updated Translators' Preface and Editing Notes, coordinated between the translation team and the publisher. 